So one is called app Google, where we code our... our progress is... Okay. Okay. Nice report. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. se sia questo che la vostra non mi scrivo se quella inglese dovrebbe bastare sul 2 dovrebbe essere qua prima del ser un'altra cosa è veramente una roba prima c'era questo provare a mettere su questa ripongiamo tutto però provi di incoraggi con l'inglese perché te lo faccio con maiuscolo il 2 adesso è andato sull'inglese quindi che fa con il 2 però quando sono arrivati l'italiano è cambiata in inglese devo dire la verità non è 142 quello prima mi sembrava che era il 142 però a parte quello non funziona proprio non ti fa nessuna lettera no che so che fa ok per qualcuno la cambia non so perché tra l'altro ok va bene va bene ciao grazie ciao ok ciao grazie grazie So let's pick again this one from yesterday. Yesterday we started the periodogram and we applied the filtering with the windowing, which is to overcome the problem leakage. And then we also perform an operation which is useful to reduce the standard deviation, the deviation of the PhD. So we took a different PSD in a stretch of data. We divided the stretch of data into several pieces. And then we did the mean of the PSDs, each one computed in one piece. And that's called Poirch method. All of this we can done it with the code that we have already done. So we transform the series of 0.0 and then applying the wedge wind with the formula that I've given to you and all of this. So we can also use the program which I already did. So that's what one should analyze the data. So, and that's what it is done here. So here we took... So here we read this data. And we used... So one, we can use the Shippai FFT package. where we have the FFT, which is FFT. So we pulled our respective So the algorithm that we used normally is what is called the FFT, which is the fast-pure-transform, which is an algorithm with the real range and different terms of the sound. And it's very, it's much more... It's faster. Okay. And then you can use it with the Shippai, the Shippai package FFT. FFT for the forward transformation. And I don't know if I have it. EFT or EFT as the inverse transformation. Okay. So that's the important one. It has to go in the page and look for it. So here. After that, we use the other two programs, which compute the PSD, the power spectral density, which program the periodogram. And we had a look also to the different choices of the window. For example, window box star was the normal choice to take a window, which is just a stretch of the data without applying any weights to the data. Then there is the window, which is just a stretch of the data, which is just a stretch of the data, which is just a stretch of the data. So that's the actual, which is the actual, where the wedge window, which I give you the formula is like the parabola. Or like the parabola is a parabola. And then we also did, we applied, so what I said before, so the wedge method. So Shrippai Senior wedge in this case. And in this case, you can apply the window that you want. And you have to say how much, how long every stretch of data are. For example, here I choose N per sec. It means number of data per second. And this number per segment, not second. And it's 2048. So in this case, is, as the noise is 10 seconds and the acquisition frequency is 248, it means one second. OK. And we said that this, no overlap, it means that the default overlap, and the default overlap is that every segment, is overlapping to the radius one or half or its length. OK. And then here we have also triangular window. OK. Just to say, let's see what we have. You see that it's very fast with respect to the use of the program, of the code that we did. So surely it's the, what we need to, to use. So here is the senior. is also an極 Quindi, perché ci sono 20,000 e più pochi? Questi sono i pochi, secondo te. Quindi, qui vediamo che abbiamo 20,000 e più pochi, questo è perché ci stiamo in finından a provol Sandra, ho Dare ritare per quanto è proprio il proiettello. Allora, queste sono molti millisecondi, tacc sister delle ore tot sk dirticale恐怖anti. Ok. Ok, let's see. Finally, the final results. So, let's see. This one is the PSD when... This is the PSD without any window or with a box. A square window. That means that here the leakage is very important. Ok. And then we have a bad estimation on the power of air. This case in orange, it's when we have the periodogram. Without applying the Welch level. That means that we apply the periodogram to all the data or to a little stretch of data. But without doing any average. And so you see that the result have a very high variation for each frequency. Ok. These and these are both with the Welch, but with different windows. And so you can see. So one is the... With the... You can... One with the triangular window. So the triangular window... It's done like that. Ok. And one is with the hung window, which is a window that... We... Applied very open. Open. Open. Open. So this is... We can put the color... Equal... Grey, for example. Ok. You see that... You can see also the difference between the different window. So... The triangular window... works... Better than the box star window. So the square window. Where the leakage is the... It's the maximum, I would say. But the unwindows works better. Ok. And so the... The best of all these things is... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... The... These... The... The... The... The... The... Well... We have less Decam. The... The... The... We have applied the wedge. So that means that... We have... We have done... between different segments... The averages... The average. And... So we have... Less variation for each. Ok. So you see... As I said... That... When you apply... One... a window, the right window, you see some fragrances, otherwise are hidden by the phenomenon. Ok. Good. Today, so, we finished last last last lessons, talking about the filtering. And we said that filtering means that we we try to cancel some frequencies from our signal. Ok. And this can be done in two maybe in two ways. In frequency domain and in time domain. Ok. In frequency domain, it means that we use the Fourier transformer so often I write FFT because I'm used to but it's just a Fourier transformer. We can also with the discrete normal iterators form. So, and here it's a different story. Here we don't pass in the in the frequency domain but we we stay in the right in the time domain. So, we will see mainly this one but there are two things to say about how when you use the filter in time domain to play the system. Ok. So, the filter in general can be casual or casual. Ok. What's the difference? The difference is that a casual it uses tu c Grazie. Grazie. I'll try to close it and then open it again. Thank you. Ok, ok. Ok, so let's hope again. Ok, ok. So closing it seems can work. It uses the data, not, uses the data. So it's very difficult to work like that. So it's very difficult to work like that. Thank you. Is there anyone online? No. Ok. Ok. Is there anyone online? No. Ok. Well, I make my lesson on the blackboard and then before erasing it I will take the photo and then I will take the photo and then I will take the photo. If I go from there, I will try to not erase each time. So the filter can be... this one. can be this one. E o casual Casual significa che filtra la la serie guardando le datate che ha già già appunto ok, so guardando il pass ok, so it means that to build to build, so to apply is a method method xn well xn is the point of the datate series ok it uses xp to build which group from 0 to m 1 ok and it can be used also the point the time point or the point the time point or the point or the point or the point or strong what does it mean that i have input time series ok i try the filtering ok and this time series means this point becomes the time stream which is bigger ok so if it is a capital it means that this one depends on the on it means that this one depends on x j or j it goes 0 to 1 e minus 1 and it depends also p and x on j with j to 0 to e you 0 to y r y r e e y y y y e y y y y y y y y y y y y y y è necessario usare questo tipo di filtra quando abbiamo in-time applicazioni. In-time applicazioni significa che siamo lavorati in-time, e poi abbiamo sub-data in-time, che sono 8-1 dati che sono stati produttori, e abbiamo bisogno di filtra. quindi crescendo le sono quali gli occhi della poetica disponibla, allora il primo in HokzINS è un filtro da nazione del一個iziose che andresa da arrebbero soltare le dati, Ok, so to filter the data from the first one to the last one, you use all the data, so for each data you use also the data which are in reality, if it is a time series, are delivered after, ok. Ok, so a casual, this casual, it uses all the data of a discurso. Without them. Looking to their time open. Ok, so I will never use that. rispettative buscando un piedi 100 Grazie. Grazie Grazie Grazie Grazie in termosidomain. In termosidomain what we do? We take a section data and we perform a task call. So in this case you don't know. When you transform the data you use to transform for example the data which is at the three quarters of the stretcher or the data because if we transform you do it at the same time, you know the data. So this is an account of data. Okay? Time is embarrassing. This is an account. The idea is very simple. The idea is that I am seeing my data and I am seeing my data and I do the and and I do that is the power spectrum. And I have sorry I can do it also on the transform homology but on the power spectrum. we can see that on the power spectrum and then we applied it to the transform. Then what we see for example the power spectrum for example we have something to the to the power spectrum down like that and the transform down in the way that this can be. We want for example to a reason to hold the frequency over the sample frequency. so we want that our signal does not doesn't have this frequency here. Ok. That means that we have to apply what is called a low-pass filter. A low-pass filter, that evades all the frequency over the center frequency. Ok. And no-pass if it means that only the lower frequency passes in the filter. Ok. So when you do that so I do it a bit on PST but then it is applied directly on NFT. so it means that I remember that the PST as we represented in this way is just a transposition of this PST ok. And also that the FST are normally recorded in this way. So here it would be we have to take away this power pattern and then that means that we have to take away also. this part okay. So here it would be from this frequency to this I have to say okay. because this is the instance that we have in the afternoon. So this one so is as I said a new task it is a new task it is a F and it is F and it is in the sign that means that only the play is null taking tv regards to nothing to just I didn't like to for the that we say multipliare the FFT for a function which gives to zero this reduce that we are not interested in. When we have done it what we have we will have something like that ok obviously it will be like that ok again I think we will the yellow part at this point we will have that the time series what we do so we apply the field to the FFT is depicted on the on the VSD because it's simpler to see because the FFT normally are less readable so when we do that we apply this function which puts to zero the frequency in the part that we have to the FFT to the real and also to the imaginary part and then to come back to the time series we just do it in that set of T ok so the procedure is we do the FFT we apply the we apply the filter we do then we are set in so we are we are in in C, so in Wittmove, we do that. It's another thing, which is the filtered time series. Okay. . . . grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie a grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie grazie grazie grazie grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie grazie grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti grazie a tutti